What, but driving, driving a race car, I mean,
you have a giant engine you're strapped into a seat.
You're hurling down the road at extreme speeds,
right next to other cars doing the same thing, just the intensity and the,
just the everything being on nine at all.
Times like that is a wild way to make a living, sir. Yeah. Thanks.
I mean, I, um, it, when I was a little, uh,
when I was little thinking about, you know,
what the hell am I gonna grow up and be, uh, I was,
my father was really successful in the sport.
So I would go to the races and I would watch him race and see him win and watch
him go through victory lane and, and celebrate and all those things.
And I thought, man, this is what I gotta do. I gotta do this. This is,
this looks fun. This looks exciting. People are, you know,
people are in awe of the drivers, the race, my father, the, the,
the personalities. And I just wanted to do it real badly,
but I knew that the odds of making it are tough.
So there's only 40 guys in the field every weekend. So there's 40 guys in this,
in the whole country that are gonna get the shot to do it. You know, and me,
the odds of me, even with my dad being as successful as he was,
I'd have a lot of doors open to me,
but the odds of me actually getting there and being able to stay had the stay in
power and the success and talent, I just knew were tough.
So I didn't know if I I'd ever get that. Um,
but it is. I don't, you know,
I remember the first time I went to a two and a half mile track it's Talladega
and you hold it wide open. I was, uh, working at my dad's dealership,
changing in oil. He owned this, uh, Chevy store in, uh, Newton, North Carolina,
and, uh, the phone rang and he said, my dad, my dad was on that end.
And he was in Talladega for a test. And he said, uh,
get your helmet and your suit and meet me at the racetrack. The next day,
you're gonna fly in the king air to the, to the track. Don't no,
don't ask questions, just do it. And so I got there and I,
I knew I was going to Talladega and I thought, man, I must be driving this.
This is gonna be crazy. I'm gonna go around this two and a half mile, two track,
full speed at 190 miles an hour. I'd never done.
I never went faster than 90 or 95 on a race track before never drove anything
bigger than a half mile. And, uh, I pulled out he's, you know, I got there.
He is like, you're gonna test this car, get in, get ready.
He puts me in there and he's like, you gotta hold a wide open.
If you don't hold a wide open me. Motor's not gonna work.
It it'll hurt the motor.
You gotta hold it the way they tune the motor to run wide open.
It has to run it. It has to run at full throttle.
If you try to go around there at half throtle to burn the pistons,
it'll run too lean. Wow. All those things. So he, he was saying that,
and I thought to myself, is he just telling me that?
Just to make sure I hold it wide open, cuz he thought I would, I would,
I would be a and not do it. <laugh>. And so I was like, man, I,
I I'm a little nervous, uh, to hold it wide open. But I,
I pulled out on the track and I mashed the gas full throttle and I'm going down
the back straightaway. And I was like, I'm looking down the back,
straight away into the next corner, this long corner. And I'm like,
how's it gonna stick? You know, how's the car gonna, how's the car.
Not gonna fly outta the racetrack. Like it I'm going so fast. I don't,
it doesn't feel like it's going to stay in the track.
And uh, and I kept running.
It kept running that through my head about my dad saying I gotta hold of wide
open. I'm like, well, dad's it. It'll it'll, it'll go wide open around here.
So I don't think he would, you know,
I believe everything he says and you go in the corner and you turn,
uh, into the corner and there is more grit than you can imagine.
Like the, there there's so much grip. The,
the car is stuck to the track with such grip that you've never felt this before
in your life. This, this grip, like you can't slide across that track.
The tr the tires and the car, a hold of the track.
So tough and tight that nothing's gonna make it. It just goes around there.
Like it's, it's the craziest thing. And so today when I tell people, uh,
when I got, I,
we got this two seater car and we take people for rides and they get in there
and I'm, I'm like, man, what am I gonna do?
What are you gonna do to explain to somebody what this is gonna feel like? Well,
they, I'm gonna tell you things to pay attention, to pay attention to the grip.
You're not gonna believe how much grip this car has. Like it's, you're,
you're just not gonna believe that it'll stick to the track way. It does.
So pay attention to that and pay attention to how bumpy and violent it is.
You know, you drive a Cadillac or, uh, any car down the street. Well, it's,
you know, six, eight inches off the ground,
these big old inflated tires and big giant sidewas.
And it's gonna feel nice. You know, when it hits little bumps,
our cars are rigid and sucked to the ground and don't have much travel in the
suspension. And you know, it just, it's, it's built to hand to go fast,
not to feel good, you know, and it's gonna, it's rough as hell. And it shakes,
shakes the hell out of you. And, um, that's what I remember about that. And,
and as soon as I got over that initial fear,
I think that was the only time I ever had any real fear of driving a car.
As soon I was like, well, all right, what, you know, anything,
nothing else is gonna be as scary as that was right. Driving a car.
And I mean, flipping.
And when I flipped for the first time and our, you know,
the car's tumbling and flying parts flying off the air, my, I,
I thought to myself that I wasn't scared,
or I never was scared of flipping. My thought was, I just did something.
A lot of people never gonna experience. You know, I did something that,
uh, that only a few people know what that's like. And,
and I feel safe. I've always felt incredibly safe inside the car, you know,
with, especially with, with the, I mean, in the last 20 years, this,
the safety stuff has really been focused on and improved and
better and better and better.
But I look at the interior of our cars today versus 20 years ago. And it's,
I can't believe of some of the stuff that we used to climb into,
but so you felt calm while it was flipping. Oh yeah.
I always, well, I've seen cars flip, right? I've seen it for years. Right.
And so I know it's possible.
So I get in there and I got turned around at a race in 1998.
I was racing at Daytona and, uh,
I got turned around and the car, so I'm flipping for the,
a first time in my life. And this car's like over 3000, uh, 3000 pounds.
So it's it's, but it flies up in the air. Like it's paper, man.
It's the craziest thing in the world. It's so weightless, you know,
and what it felt like to me,
cuz so the car rolled on its side and uh,
came down kind of on its side.
It felt like somebody rolled a prop wall of grass up against the car.
You know what I'm saying? Right.
When I was on my side and I could see the ground,
I felt like I was right side up because as you're flipping the,
the force pushes you down in the seat. So you feel eternally, it, you feel, uh,
gravity all the time. Like you're, you know, as a car is flipping you're,
you're pushed into this seat.
So you feel GRA you feel weight of yourself in the seat that never changes.
You never kind of come map out of the seat, right? Like that, you know?
And so it is like somebody rolled a prop wall of grass up against the side of
the car and then against the roof and then against that side. And then that's,
you know, it kept doing that and I'm like,
it's just the weirdest feeling and you feel completely safe, you know? Wow.
You feel like, you know, nothing's gonna harm me, but this, but,
and you know, this, you just, one of the things we always talk about is like,
get your hands, um,
onto to something because the spinning makes your arms just go like this.
And if you watch a lot of old wrecks from the sixties and seventies,
you'll see the guys' arms come flying out the window and they're just kind of
flopping around. They can, 't pull, it's spinning so fast.
You can't pull it in and uh, your arms will go like that.
So as soon as you know, you're going upside down,
you grab the bottom of the steering wheel and just kind of, you know, watch.
But, um,
I flipped my pickup truck one time on Christmas day and I wasn't holding on the
steering wheel and my arm went out the window, you know,
for like a split second. It banged around in the, in the, in the windows seal.
And I was like, man, you know,
I got it back in and grabbed a hold of the steering wheel with both my hands.
And so ever since then, I've like, you know,
now I know like anytime I'm in a crash, you gotta have your hands,
a hold of something. Cuz that's the one thing that you can't control.
You're strapped in with your seatbelt and everything. But your arms are,
you know, can go anywhere.
And in that moment when the car is rolling or barrel rolling or flipping you
it's so fast, like you can't your arms just go this way. <laugh> yeah.
It's the craziest thing in the world. That's the only fear I guess,
is that your arm could get outside the window and get crushed or something cuz
the guys have that happen. Yeah, I would imagine. Yeah.
How'd you flip when you were on Christmas? On Christmas day? My sister, uh,
she knows this. She just won't be news to her, but um, uh, it,
it's probably not fun for her to hear every time I tell it, but we,
I had a pickup truck with the tape deck in it and I had,
she got me that walk man CD with the adaptor,
for the tape tape deck that you stick into you, you know,
you set adapter and she bought me the walk mancassette adapter and I'm in my I'm
in, I'm in my truck. I got an extended cab, S 10.
I'm driving from my I house to my,
my Mamaw's house where fam reunion is my dad's there. Everybody's there.
The whole family's there, I'm a little late. Um,
and I'm driving down the road and I got to mess him with that walk man.
And I drove off into the ditch and I hit a driveway cul pipe drainage pipe in a
driveway and went like seven flips and destroyed this truck.
And in the middle of the flipping, I remember that happening and everything,
all my change jacket, anything that was loose in the car,
ended up down in the one corner, like floorboard,
everything sort of collects into that one corner as it spinning. And uh,
it crushed the windshield down. The mirror was down into the rain. You know,
it was, it crushed the roof down real bad. I was really lucky.
I had my hands on top of the steering wheel and the windshield kept slapping my
knuckles and knocked all my busted, all my knuckles real bad. And so then I,
I let go and my hands went this way.
And then I finally got 'em back in and grabbed the bottom of steering wheel.
It broke it, the tire were flip, you know, broken and busted off the,
the truck and this, I got outta the truck and I was fine.
Didn't have any injuries other than just the knuckles kind of being scraped up
this, this newly married couple, they just,
or either got engaged or just got married,
were driving the other way and saw the whole thing and stopped.
And uh, they were like, yeah, right. I'm like, yeah. And uh,
of course there's this line of cars behind me stopped on the road and this one
lady pulls up and I was like, I need to borrow your cell phone to call my dad.
She's like, you're in shock. You need to sit down. I was like, no,
I'm not in shock. I just need to borrow myself, borrow your cell phone. So she,
so I walked in the next car <laugh> and got a cell phone from this person.
I called my dad and I was like, dad. I was like, man, I flipped my truck.
I had paid, I had got I'd financed this thing for five years.
I was paying a hundred dollars a month. It's perfect.
I was working at dealership, changing in oil, probably making $130 a week. And
I mean, just got this truck for probably 2, 2, 3 months and um,
used truck. But it was, it was good. It's junk. Uh,
I called dad and I'm like, man, he's gonna be mad.
Can't be too mad cuz I'm paying for the truck,
but he's gonna be mad at me cuz I'm screwing up family reunion and Christmas,
he comes to get me, uh I'd flip truck, real close to our where our farm was.
So he ran over to the farm and got this flatbed truck. And uh,
he pulls out there with the flatbed truck and he pulls up as soon as he pulls
up,
the state trooper pulls up and the state trooper guy and dad talked for a minute
and the guy state trooper's like, you know, one single car accident. You okay?
Yeah. Everybody's okay. Dad, dad, are you gonna put this on the flatb bed?
Take it home. Yeah. Okay. Okay. You know, I ain't gonna,
I ain't gonna investigate or anything. Everything's cool.
Y'all just go about your business. So he left.
So he did us a solid there and uh, didn't gimme any kind of traffic ticket.
And so me and dad put the truck on <affirmative> the flatbed and we're driving
back and he started laughing and I was like, man,
I expected you to be really mad cuz he was a, uh, fiery kind of dad, you know,
and, and uh, pulled a belt out and go to town, you know, be he was a rough,
strict, tough, tough dude. And so I thought I was gonna get, um,
a good cussing at least, but he started laughing and I said, man,
what's so funny. And he goes, I was 18 when this happened. He goes,
when I was 18 years old, I flipped my car. He's like, I can't get mad.
He's like, it's just, I'm just glad you're not hurt. I'm like, that's nice.
So we drove back. I took a couple pictures of it and uh, got me,
got any insurance for it.
Got like 11 gram for the insurance to be able to buy another truck.
<laugh> so it all worked out. Yeah.